[ADD] sales: discounts (#12115)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/discounts.rst

=========
Discounts
=========

> The *Discounts* feature allows users to decrease or increase the price on single or multiple item

Reviewer: is that tue?! So weird we'd use the term 'discount' for an INCREASE in a price =D

Author: Yes! I might actually change this on second thought since increasing the price is more of a secondary function. Thanks for pointing this out!

> The *Discounts* feature allows users to decrease or increase the price on single or multiple item
> lines in a sales quotation or order. This is calculated as a percentage of the products' sales

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Discounts* feature allows users to decrease or increase the price on item
lines in a sales quotation or order. This is calculated as a percentage of the products' sales
```

price.

> To access discounts, navigate to the **Sales** app setting page (:menuselection:`Sales app -->
> Configuration --> Settings`), and click the :guilabel:`Discounts` checkbox, then click
> :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access discounts in the  **Sales** app , navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app -->
Configuration --> Settings`. Click the :guilabel:`Discounts` checkbox in the :guilabel:'Pricing' section,  then click
:guilabel:`Save`.
```
Just a way to have all the instructions in a sentence instead of in brackets. Not necessary, just an option! Also, it's nice to tell people what section the checkbox is in since there's so many.

.. image:: discounts/discounts-option.png
   :alt: Click the checkbox labeled Discounts to activate Discounts.

After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation by going to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on
the desired quote from the list.

Discounts on Product Lines
==========================

> In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled

Reviewer: I think 'Order Lins' can have a GUI since it's a real field on the form. Also, I think you can refer to it as a tab?

> In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading appears labeled
```

:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired

> discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the quote
> :guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the 
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.
```

.. tip::
   A discount can also be added directly to a sales order in the same way. Navigate to
   :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`, click on the desired sales order, and add the

>    discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` field as described above.
```

.. image:: discounts/discount-on-sales-order.png
   :alt: The Dis.% heading will now appear in Order Lines.

> .. tip::

Reviewer: This could be a 'note' just to change it up and not have 2 tips back to back?

   Positive values for :guilabel:`Disc.%` will apply a *discount*, while negative values can be
   used to *increase* the price.

.. important::
   Positive values, or price decreases, will be visible to the customer, while negative values, or
   price increases, will *not* be visible to the customer. Instead of a discount column, the
   negative discount will change the product's unit price.

Discount button
===============

> In Odoo 17 and above, with the 'Discounts' settings enabled, a :guilabel:`Discount` button appears

Reviewer: If this doc is for 18, I suggest removing the mention of the verisons since it's clearly for the version being written for.

If this is applicable for version 17, I would write a doc for 17 as well, and make the necessary changes based off of this one. This way, there's no information on versions, it's just the info that is relevant to the version you are reading for.

window appears.

On this pop-up window, configure the :guilabel:`Discount` percentage, and select one of the
following options:.

- :guilabel:`On All Order Lines`: Add the specified discount percentage (configured in the
  :guilabel:`Discount` field of the pop-up window) on all existing order lines of the sales order.
- :guilabel:`Global Discount`: Add a discount product line to the order, which has the cumulative
  value equivalent to the specified discount percentage.

  .. example::
     In this example, since the product total is $4,200, and there is a 10% global discount, a
     global discount line is added to the sales order with a -$420 value (which is 10% of $4,200).

     .. image:: discounts/global-discount-option-so.png
        :alt: The sales order with the applied global discount option in the Odoo Sales application.

  .. important::
     Any product added (or removed) *after* the global discount line is added does **not** affect
     the discount value on the discount line. To include new products or amend current products in
     the global discount, delete the current global discount line and repeat the steps.

> - :guilabel:`Fixed Amount`: When selected, the percentage designation in the :guilabel:`Discount`

Reviewer: Could you use this for a coupon or a voucher or something similar? Or would that be handled a different way? Just trying ot think of real-world examples for this - you could add an 'example' block if so.

=========
Discounts
=========

The *Discounts* feature allows users to decrease or increase the price on item lines in a sales
quotation or order. This is calculated as a percentage of the products' sales price.

To access discounts in the **Sales** app , navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration
--> Settings`. In the :guilabel:`Pricing` section, tick the :guilabel:`Discounts` checkbox, then
click :guilabel:`Save`.

> .. image:: discounts/discounts-option.png
>    :alt: Click the checkbox labeled Discounts to activate Discounts.
> 

Reviewer 2: This image is unnecessary as the written instruction is sufficient  
```suggestion
```

Discounts on product lines
==========================

In the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the quotation form, a new column heading appears labeled
:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
discount for each product line and the new price is automatically calculated in the
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

.. tip::
   A discount can also be added directly to a sales order in the same way. Navigate to
   :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`, click the desired sales order, and add the
   discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` field as described above.

.. image:: discounts/discount-on-sales-order.png
   :alt: The Dis.% heading will now appear in Order Lines.

.. note::
   Positive values for :guilabel:`Disc.%` will apply a *discount*, while negative values can be
   used to *increase* the price.

.. important::
   Positive values, or price decreases, will be visible to the customer, while negative values, or
   price increases, will *not* be visible to the customer. Instead of a discount column, the
   negative discount will change the product's unit price.

Discount button
===============

> With the 'Discounts' settings enabled, a :guilabel:`Discount` button appears at the bottom of sales

Reviewer 2: Fix formatting :)
```suggestion
With the *Discounts* settings enabled, a :guilabel:`Discount` button appears at the bottom of sales
```

orders.

.. image:: discounts/discount-button-sales-order.png
   :alt: The discount button located at the bottom of a sales order form in the Odoo Sales app.

> Clicking the the :guilabel:`Discount` button on a sales order opens a pop-up window, where the

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
Clicking the :guilabel:`Discount` button on a sales order opens a pop-up window, where the
```

To access discounts in the  **Sales** app , navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration
--> Settings`. Click the :guilabel:`Discounts` checkbox in the :guilabel:`Pricing` section, then
click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: discounts/discounts-option.png
   :alt: Click the checkbox labeled Discounts to activate Discounts.

After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation by going to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on
the desired quote from the list.

Discounts on product lines
==========================

In the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the quotation form, a new column heading appears labeled
:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

.. tip::
   A discount can also be added directly to a sales order in the same way. Navigate to
   :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`, click on the desired sales order, and add the
   discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` field as described above.

> .. image:: discounts/discount-on-sales-order.png

Reviewer 3: There's quite a bit of horizontal white space between the columns in this screenshot. Could you retake this by reducing the width of the window, and maybe increasing the zoom to ~125% so the column names are easier to read? (:

   used to *increase* the price.

.. important::
   Positive values, or price decreases, will be visible to the customer, while negative values, or
   price increases, will *not* be visible to the customer. Instead of a discount column, the
   negative discount will change the product's unit price.

Discount button
===============

With the 'Discounts' settings enabled, a :guilabel:`Discount` button appears at the bottom of sales
orders.

.. image:: discounts/discount-button-sales-order.png
   :alt: The discount button located at the bottom of a sales order form in the Odoo Sales app.

When the :guilabel:`Discount` button on a sales order is clicked, a :guilabel:`Discount` pop-up
window appears.

On this pop-up window, configure the :guilabel:`Discount` percentage, and select one of the
following options:.

- :guilabel:`On All Order Lines`: Add the specified discount percentage (configured in the
  :guilabel:`Discount` field of the pop-up window) on all existing order lines of the sales order.
- :guilabel:`Global Discount`: Add a discount product line to the order, which has the cumulative
  value equivalent to the specified discount percentage.

  .. example::

>      In this example, since the product total is $4,200, and there is a 10% global discount, a
>      global discount line is added to the order with a -$420 value (which is 10% of $4,200).

Reviewer 3: Rewording for brevity and explaining what the example is showing, right at the beginning! (:
```suggestion
     A global discount of 10% is added in the last line of a sales order with a subtotal of $4,200 by adding a
     discount line with a -$420 value (which is 10% of $4,200).
```

>      .. image:: discounts/global-discount-option-so.png

Reviewer 3: The text is a little small in this one, too! Could you increase the zoom to 120% and squish the width a little, so there's less space between the columns?

        :alt: The sales order with the applied global discount option in the Odoo Sales application.

  .. important::
     Any product added (or removed) *after* the global discount line is added does **not** affect
     the discount value on the discount line. To include new products or amend current products in
     the global discount, delete the current global discount line and repeat the steps.

- :guilabel:`Fixed Amount`: Add a monetary amount to the :guilabel:`Discount` field. Once applied,
  this amount is added to the order as a product line, with the monetary value subtracted from the
  order total.

  .. example::

>      In this example, the fixed amount of $20 appears as a product line, with a negative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     A fixed discount of $20 appears as a product line, with a negative
```
